In this chapter we're going to be
discussing creating functions in Python.In
this lesson, all
i'm going to be doing providing you with a
definition of what a function is.
And some reasons why we want to
write functions, or create functions in
our programs.
Let's start with the definition first.
A function is a piece of source code.
Separate from the larger program, that
performs a specific task.
So when we define a function, we are
defining it in a separate area then
the rest of our program and we're defining
it because we wanted to do something
specific.
Such a square number or count the letters
in a strain.
Although we have functions for that.
Some sort of specific tasks.
So what are the reasons why we want to use
functions in our program?
Well the first reason is to reduce complex
tasks into simpler tasks.
And by that I mean that if we have a 5000
line program that's all
just one big large program, that becomes
very hard to work with.
Whereas, if we have a 5000 line program
that's broken up into.
Many functions of 10 to 20 lines each.
It's much easier to deal with those
individual pieces than it is to try
to handle the whole program as one big,
large ball of code, so to speak.
So that's the first reason.
The second reason is to illuminate
duplicate code.
By duplicate code I just mean that if for
example, we have a
statistics program where we have to sum
the squares of a data set.
Well we would write a set of instructions,
a set of code, to sum the squares.
Well, if we're having to do that several
places
in our program if we have to constantly
re-write.
The loop or whatever it is that we do to
write the sum of squares.
If we have it in our program in several
places, we have
to rewrite it every single time that we
need to use it.
However, if we create that as a function,
then
we only have to write the definition of
the
function once and then we can reuse that
function
as many times we need to in our program.
So that's what we're talking about when we
talk about eliminate duplicate code.
Another reason is code reuse.
Once we write a sum of squares function,
for
example, then we can reuse it in any other
program that we have or that we need to
write that involves computing the sum of
the squares.
So rather than recreate the definition
over and
over again in many different programs, we
create
that function definition once, and then we
can reuse it as often as we need to.
Another reason is to distribute tasks to
multiple programmers.
If we break our large program up into
multiple functions,
then each function can be assigned to a
different programmer.
And if we're working in a large
programming shop, that will increase our
efficiency.
Another reason to write functions is
to hide implementation details, also
called abstraction.
This makes it easier for someone who's
reading our
program to look at our high-level function
calls and then
decide whether or not they want to look at
the low level details of how the function
is implemented.
This makes maintenance of programs easier.
And it also improves the overall quality
of your programs.
And then our last reason, improves the
debugging of
our programs by improving the traceability
of a program.
It's much easier to follow a program along
either manually or using a debugging tool.
When you can jump from function to
function, or from function call to
function call.
So it's a lot easier to trace the progress
of a program
by following functions, rather than to
follow the actual lines of code
themselves.
So, creating functions improves our
debugging by
allowing us to trace our programs more
easily.
So, those are the reasons why we want to
use functions.
And I would say that becoming a adequate
or good
function creator is a very, very important
task in programming.
And something that you should spend a lot
of time practicing.
The better you are at defining functions.
The better of a programmer you're going to
be.
So with that we're ready to move on to the
next lesson of the
chapter where, we're going to look at how
to define a function in Python.